>> Steve: We've been doing
a lot to manage state right?
We've been constructing some mutable state
trees and creating these actions and
then creating these action creators and
then throwing the immutable state tree and
the action to a reducer and
producing a new state.
Whatever happened to just changing stuff?
Remember changing stuff?
It was pretty great!
If you wanted something to be different,
you pushed something onto an array or
you set the text to something else, right?
It was a pretty wonderful thing here.
What if we could just add a thing,
change the text to something and
have that change in our UI?
Like, that would be great to not have
to jump through all of these hoops.
And we'll talk a little bit later,
how there's actually tradeoffs,
which is a common theme.
Turns out everything involves tradeoffs,
there are some times where
this other thing is better.
But yeah, so
a primary tenet of MobX is that you can
store state in a simple data structure.
You can use classes.
Right not even simple JavaScript objects.
But you'd have a class that has
methods that can manipulate the state.
You can do all those things.
From one object to running programming was
cool, and you can just change things and
you will be able to render it and
re render your user interface with that.
So we are gonna do something very
similar to what we did with redux,
and we are gonna kind of play
with it in isolation for a bit.
So I've got bit.ly and
I've got super-basic-mobx.
>> Steve: I'll pause for one second.
>> Steve: So let's take a look at what
we have here, which is this looks like
the person class that we had before,
but you'll notice a few things.
I have these decorators that have
been pulled in from the MobX library.
This one's called observable, and
we decorate first name with it, and
we decorate last name with it.
And now it is wrapped, these properties,
in what we'll take a much
deeper look at in a second.
And, then we have this other
one called computed, alright,
which we are wrapping around
that computed property.
And, what you will see here,
is that this is again a get statement.
But this will actually be regenerated,
like, we will be notified whenever
first name and last name changes.
And what can we do with those
notifications when things change we could
re-render the UI.
We could tell react that
things have changed.
We don't actually even need
to tell react anything.
But the problem right now with regular
objects, if I just took a person
JavaScript object and I instantiated it,
and I passed it to a view, and
I started changing properties on it,
is that we never really know
when that object changes, right we
can mutate state and like react would
not know it's like still the same object
in memory, like nothings changed here.
And like,
it's really hard to do anything, but
when we have observable, all of a sudden
we can know when stuff changes.
Effectively what observable gives us is it
registers events, to say hey I changed.
Someone was saying something to me,
I changed.
You might wanna re-render some things.
So I can make a new
person of me this time.
I can even just have
an observable string and
>> Steve: Check this out.
So I have this little method here
called render which just takes
the document body and sets its inter text.
So you can see the name, the person's
full name, you'll notice I am not using
the parenthesis there as well as
some quote that is just a string.
And then this is a method from
outbacks called autorun Right?
An autorun is triggered when ever
a property that we're observing changes.
So, in this case that
is the first name and
last name on any person object that
we obstantiate, in this case, me.
It is also this particular string that we
wrapped in the observable function, right?
And so, this observable function
here Is slightly different but
effectively the same as this, right and
we will actually see it is a second.
So here I've got,
it is rendering to the page and
it will re-render whenever it changes.
You are like okay, cool so
I put a action on a button or
something like that right This
is just a console, no big deal.
>> Steve: The page changed.
I just literally pulled an object and
re-assigned the first name.
The render is looking for the full name,
right, so somehow it knew.
Full name got recomputed,
because first name changed.
That triggered auto run,
there's no react in this code.
This is like literally
document.body.innertext.
And all of a sudden, I could theoretically
build an entire pizza calculator in here,
or whatever, and re-render the entire
page whenever something changes.
>> Steve: I can say quote.
Now quote's a little trickier
because objects have references, and
we can mutate them.
Usually with strings, they're immutable,
so we just replace them.
So this won't actually work,
>> Steve: Unfortunately I'm not
gonna do it, just trust me that nothing
will happen, we'll still get the old one.
But with the quote, because we can't
do this with strings and numbers,
cuz they're not actually objects, despite
the fact that you think they have methods.
We could do quote.set.
>> Steve: And that automatically changes
on the page, and we will render.
Right, so this is a really powerful idea,
this is taking like the way we normally
used to just dealing with like objects and
things in regular programming
before UIs got very hard.
[LAUGH] And as we change stuff,
we can trigger things to happen.